1. In 1954, Belgian physicist Georges Lemaître was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics for predicting 
the expansion of the universe, forming the basis of what theory in astronomy?;A. Theory of relativity;B. Big Bang;C. Multiverse Theory;D. Electric Universe Theory;B
2. A type of sound wave with a frequency higher than the human hearing limit, with a short wavelength, 
is widely used in detecting broken welds, cleaning, pregnancy scans, dog training whistles, etc. Name 
this type of sound wave.;A. Infrasound;B. Ultrasound;C. Audible sound;D. Acoustic wave;B
3. In the experiment: "Bubbling ethylene gas into a KMnO4 solution, the color of the solution gradually 
fades, and a dark brown precipitate forms". What is that precipitate?;A. MnO2;B. Mn2O7;C. MnO;D. K2MnO;A
4. The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was awarded to German scientist Emil von Behring in 1901 
for his "discovery of serum therapies." What disease was this discovery applied to treat?;A. Pneumonia;B. Schizophrenia;C. Asthma;D. Diphtheria;D
5. In 1856, Mendel, the "father of genetics," conducted experiments studying the laws of inheritance on 
which subjects?;A. Yeast;B. Fungi ;C. Pea plants;D. Drosophila melanogaster;C
6. On April 4, 2009, two Russian explorers planted the Vietnamese national flag for the first time at 
which location?;A. North Pole;B. South Pole;C. Everest;D. Death valley;A
7. What is the term for the phenomenon in which a small change in one part of a system can have large 
effects on another part of the system?;A. Butterfly effect;B. Informational Social Influence;C. Gaslighting;D. Spotlight effect;A
8. Toru Ueda, a highway engineer from Tokyo, spent a staggering three million Yen (nearly 23 000 USD) on 
the custom-made costume to transform into one animal in order that he could relax and forget all his troubles. 
What is an animal mentioned in the text? ;A. Lion ;B. Tiger;C. Wolf ;D. Bear;C
9. What is the scientific name of a huge collection of gas, dust, and billions of stars and their solar 
systems, all held together by gravity? ;A. Galaxy;B. Nebula;C. Cosmic dust;D. Interstellar medium;B
10. The TV programme known as "The Voice" was first created in a European country in 2010. Vietnam bought 
the copyright of this show, started the first show in 2012 and the winner at that time was a person from 
Nghe An province. Which country was the first one to create that show? ;A. Spain;B. Italy;C. France;D. Netherlands;D
11. [...] was a Polish and naturalized-French physicist and chemist who conducted pioneering research on 
radioactivity. She was the first woman to win a Nobel Prize, the first person to win a Nobel Prize twice, 
and the only person to win a Nobel Prize in two scientific fields. Fill in the blank.;A. Albert Einstein;B. Niels Bohr;C. Marie Curie;D. Stephen Hawking;C
12. What is the state of equal ease of access to resources and opportunities regardless of gender, including
economic participation and decision-making and the state of valuing different behaviors? ;A. Marriage Equality;B. Disability Equality;C. Gender Equality;D. Age Equality wave;C
13. "Life without music is unthinkable for me", Einstein said. "I live a dream in music. I see on the same
emotional spectrum as music, and most of the joy in my life comes form music". Einstein began to study one
instrument seriously when he happened to hear Mozart sonates played on the same one at the age of 13. Since
that time, this instrument has become his enduring passion. What is the name of the instrument ;A. Violin;B. Guitar;C. Piano;D. Saxophone;A
14. Each star on the "Hollywood Walk of Fame" consists of a paving stone including a pink pentagram edged
in bronze and paved with a square coal. Inside the pink star is the name of the honoree inlaid in bronze, 
under it is a round bronze symbol indicating the recipient’s industry category. What is the icon representing
a contribution to the recording industry?;A. Classic film camera;B. Television receiver;C. Gramophone;D. Comedy mask;C
15. This period happened for 4 years, from 1986 to 1991 in Japan with land and stock prices skyrocketing. 
The rise in prices of these asset classes made many individuals and companies rich in an instant. 
Production and spending were stimulated causing economic growth to jump. However its subsequent collapse
was just as rapid as its initial intense expansion. What is the period mentioned in the text? ;A. Economic Crisis;B. Subsidised Economy ;C. Bubble Economy;D. Market Economy;C